AI USAGE
-----------

AI / LLM tools used:

## Claude Code

Used for:

- Generating code
- Most important plugins:
    - [Superpowers](https://github.com/obra/superpowers)
        - Includes useful skills like TDD, systematic debuggic, brainstorming, writing/executing plans, code review...
    - [OpenSpec](https://github.com/Fission-AI/OpenSpec)
        - A great plugin for planning and organizing work before letting the agent loose on building anything. Provides structured planning, speccing and task management for the agents to use as a basis for work.

Since use of AI tools was encouraged, I decided to use Claude Code heavily with the aid of Superpowers and OpenSpec plugins, which are a very efficient combination. A lot of pre-planning, providing context by examples and other guidelines can lead to pretty good results.

I do not claim to have a perfected workflow, I'm sure it is still somewhat experimental for everybody.

My general workflow:

Before writing/generating any code, I manually wrote a 300 line design document (design.md in the repository, by now nearly 400 lines as it grows during development), outlining the general project scope, tech stack, architecture, project file structure, etc., in some parts drilling down into details to ensure enough guidance for the agent, for example by providing exact desired function signatures, data models and example inputs and expected outputs. I singled out the key components required in the design doc (web backend, CLI tool for parsing/inserting a graph to the DB, and SQL script to find cycles).

After, I asked CC to review the design and read the coding challenge PDF to ensure fit for purpose, and point out if I missed anything, and ask clarifying questions. I improved the design as a result.

Finally, when starting implementation, I would use planning mode and define OpenSpec change requests and refer to different parts of the design doc for guidance and background. For planning the change requests, always use Opus model for best reasoning capabilities. For implementation, I mostly used Sonnet (cheaper token usage). 

Whenever a task is complete, I review the entire work using an IDE and test run the result. If I make changes to the result myself or in general write manual code, I would leave a comment like `# TODO CLAUDE: comment...` describe what I did and ensure that the changes are coherent with the rest of the codebase, tests, and comments etc. Likewise when reviewing Claude's work, I leave similar comments with descriptions and context what I want changed, and then ask Claude to find all such comments and plan change requests for them, which I would review and then let Claude work on them one by one.

The vast majority of the codebase is generated by Claude. I reviewed all code output generated, left plenty of further modification/refactoring requests, and can claim to understand everything it produced. Exception: The `sql/find_cycles.sql` script is hand written (based on research and articles), as the context was new to me and thus the most challenging piece of the assignment, and I wanted to understand it well, but without getting completely lost in graph theory.

For quality control, linting (ruff, ty) and tests must always pass before calling a task complete. 

For efficiency, I used a proprietary (i.e. made by myself, unrelated to this coding challenge) MCP server that Claude could use to flash the lamp on my desk (smart lights, home automation) whenever it needed input from me or was finished with a task. Very useful when letting Claude work in the background and I am researching something else in the mean time.



## ChatGPT

Used for:

- Get a 2nd opinion on outputs by Claude
- Bounce ideas/prototype to not waste tokens of Claude
- As a general search on technical topics and research

## Google search

Used for:

- The LLM answers serve as a quick search into some technical topic to get a quick idea or example or code snippet of something
- Get 2nd/3rd opinion on outputs by Claude/ChatGPT
